---
title: "Autonomous NIC Offloads"
collection: publications
permalink: /publications/2021-l5o
excerpt: ''
date: 2021-04-19
venue: "ASPLOS '21: ACM International Conference on Architectural Support for Languages and Operating Systems"
paperurl: 'files/2021-l5o.pdf'
#citation: 'Your Name, You. (2009). &quot;Paper Title Number 1.&quot; <i>Journal 1</i>. 1(1).'
authors: Boris Pismenny, Haggai Eran, Aviad Yehezkel, Liran Liss, Adam Morrison, Dan Tsafrir
#best: 1
#abstract: 1
---
CPUs routinely offload to NICs network-related processing tasks like
packet segmentation and checksum. NIC offloads are advantageous
because they free valuable CPU cycles. But their applicability is
typically limited to layer≤4 protocols (TCP and lower), and they
are inapplicable to layer-5 protocols (L5Ps) that are built on top of
TCP. This limitation is caused by a misfeature we call ``offload
dependence,'' which dictates that L5P offloading additionally requires
offloading the underlying layer≤4 protocols and related
functionality: TCP, IP, firewall, etc. The dependence of L5P
offloading hinders innovation, because it implies hard-wiring the
complicated, ever-changing implementation of the lower-level
protocols.

We propose ``autonomous NIC offloads,'' which eliminate offload dependence.
Autonomous offloads provide a stateful and lightweight software-device
architecture that accelerates L5Ps without having to migrate the
entire layer≤4 TCP/IP stack into the NIC. A main challenge that
autonomous offloads address is coping with out-of-sequence packets. We
implement autonomous offloads for two L5Ps: (i) NVMe-over-TCP
zero-copy and CRC computation, and (ii) https authentication,
encryption, and decryption. Our autonomous offloads improve throughput
by up to 3.3x and lower CPU consumption and latency by as
much as 2.4x and 1.4x. Their implementation is
already upstreamed in the Linux kernel, and they will be supported in
the next-generation of Mellanox NICs.
